-: Welcome back.
In this lecture we are going to understand
about Fargate profiles creation with YAML.
So let's see what we are going to learn.
All in all, so we are going
into inside 0 9 0 2 Fargate profiles, advanced YAML.
So as part of this, what are we going to learn is
so we are going to deploy three apps
in a mixer mode deployment.
So which means one app to our EKS manager node group
which is with EC2 and two apps
we are going to deploy to two different Fargate profiles.
So as part of that, to create those two Fargate profiles
we need to write the YAML
and then create those two Fargate profiles at a time.
Earlier we have user the command to create it
in our 0 9 0 1.
So to create a Fargate profile.
So we have user the command.
So like this if you want to create 10 profiles
so you need to run 10 times the command.
Instead of that, we are going to do that using a YAML file.
So like this, so we'll discuss
about this later but for now we'll go back
and then understand what are the three apps and
then how we are going to deploy the detailed architecture.
Let's see what are those three apps and then
how we are going to deploy in a visual manner, right?
So in AWS cloud we have a VPC
and inside VPC we are going to have
both the EKS manager node groups
and then EKS Fargate profiles.
So in a EKS cluster we are going to have both Fargate
profiles and then manage the node groups together.
So that is nothing but we call it as mix it more, right?
So what happens here is like as usual we'll have
our availability zones and then subnets, right?
So
from Fargate perspective it only supports private subnets.
So if you see here, here we have only private subnets
and managing node groups can be created
in both private and public subnets.
But as part
of this section we are only, we have already
an existing private subnet related EKS manage node group.
So that's the reason I have rounded it to only this part
and the in this public subnets we are going to
deploy our ingress related services.
So now what happens is as part of
Fargate
whenever we bring the Fargate into the picture
so the organization
of apps is going to be with the name spaces, right?
So how we are going to organize this with name spaces.
So for this EKS manager node group
whatever the application NS app one means
like app one whatever we are going to deploy
for that we have created a name space NS app one
in the same way for app two we are going to
create a namespace app two and then for application UMS
which is user management microservice.
So we are going to have the name space as NS UMS.
So now NS app two will be part of one Fargate profile
NS UMS will be part of another Fargate profile
and NS app one is going to be for manage node groups means
like these namespaces are not tied to anything specifically.
So, but high level
if we have that name space tied to Fargate profile
so those apps will be scheduled
to that respect to Fargate profile.
So it's the other way around, but whatever may be the case.
So now if you take my app one, right
so app one related ports I have deployed
on the easy to worker notes here.
So, and it'll have its own note port service
and its own app one ingress service, okay?
And in the same way
for app two we'll have a Fargate profile with app two
and then inside that we'll deploy our app to application
and it also will have the its own separate app
to ingress service.
So why we are having separate set of services
we'll see the next slide means like why we are
going to have separate ingress services here.
Okay? So we have seen the concepts of context
part based routing in ALB, but why we are not
using here when we are using this mixed mode deployments.
Okay? So there is a reason for that.
So we'll see in the next slide.
Okay, so now another thing is UMS is nothing
but user management microservice
it's ingress service need to be deployed and UMS part
which is nothing but EMS deployment will be deployed
and it's not port service and it's external limb service.
And this external limb service is going to connect
to the RDS database, right?
So whatever we have created, so
if this RDS database is not and up, up and running
from previous sections, whatever we have created, right?
So if it is down and then if you want to start it
you can start it up.
Okay? Why?
Because whenever you deploy UMS, if this is not
up then this port keeps failing.
So now the next thing is as soon as these things
are created, one more thing will be there
which is external DNS to digital the DNS names
and also also say for SSL certificate certificate manager
related certificate will be associated
in our ingress survey.
Okay? So now it'll resist three DNS names app one dot cub
one cloud.com app two dot cube coupon cloud.com
and then UMS dot cube coupon cloud.com.
So now as a user, so if I'm using means like
if I'm using app one cube coupon cloud.com and then
if I access the application I come to, I come to app
on ingress and then from there I'll go to app
on note port service and then from there it'll be
load balancer two app, one ports, okay?
Using note port service stuff.
Okay? So now
now if you go to app to cuban cloud.com, it'll
go to app to ingress here and then
we directly go to the port
because we are going to use for target parts
we are going to use target type IP our manifest
in the same way for UMS UMS cuban cloud.com.
So we are going to access it and the request comes
to UMS part and if the request is health status
then directly from here it'll be solve.
But if the request is going to be something
like list users or something which is slash users
so then the request will go
to external name service and then it'll go back
to RDS database and then serve it back to the user.
So this is the mixer mode with three apps
whatever we are going to deploy mixer mode.
Again, I am going to reiterate nothing
but in a same EKS cluster we are going to have
both fargate profiles
and then EKS manager easy to notes also in the same cluster.
Okay? So that is nothing but the mixer mode.
So moving on.
So we have discussed
about why can't we use the app only one ingress
for all these things, right?
So it means like one ingress for app, one UMS, and also
for app two and then route it if it comes to app one ingress
and then if it is slash app one go here and then
if it is UMS go this way and then have to go this way.
So why can't we do that?
Okay, so which is nothing but ingress with
cross name spaces.
You call it as why because you created a ingress
and then this ingress whatever you are going to create
right? So if you go back to the previous picture, right?
So this ingress whatever the app one ingress
even though we are not specifying here
in the picture app, one ingress will be part
of NS app one namespace, okay?
And UMS ingress will be part of NS UMS, namespace
and app two ingress will be part of NS app two namespace.
Now if you see here this
one app one,
this respect
to ingress, if it is not part of any name spaces are
if it need to go across name spaces to send that traffic.
So that's not possible as on today, which means like ingress
with cross name spaces is not supported
as on today even there is a GitHub open
back from 2015 onwards.
But till date that is not resolved as on today.
So not only in LB ingress,
this is not supported as on today.
So now which means this concept is not applicable here.
So always if you are dealing with multiple name spaces
then always it is
like each name space one ingress should be there
and inside this name space you have 10 apps
then 10 contact path based routing
or host editor base at routing.
Whatever the routing you want to implement
you can implement inside that name space.
But outside of name space
which means across cross name spaces with single ingress
we will not be able to do the context path based routing
or any host head based routing
or any ingress related concepts
with single ingress to multiple name spaces.
So with that said
we have completed our introductory section
and then we'll move on to advance
at Fargate profile with YAML in our next lecture.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.